Developer and technologist and
Scott Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number two 91,
Thursday, November 3rd, The most comprehensive
suite of components. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hanselminutes today.
I'm talking to Damien Edwards.
Damien's got some interesting stuff
he's been doing on the
side with David Fowler. How's it
going, Damien Very well. Thanks.
How are you? I'm getting
there. Do you want a
little bit of a, do
a little bit of work
with this new thing called
signal R I'm going to
be talking at a conference
on a, on Monday about
it, but you did all
the work. Can you tell
me about signaler? That's a
signal is a little library
that David Fowler and myself have
put together over the last
few months that provides a
persistent connection abstraction between the
browser and the web server
that you can code against
as an application developer. Okay.
Persistent connection abstraction. So, you
know, on a reminder might
be obvious, but HTTP is
a stateless protocol. So you
make a call and then
you close that call down.
And then later on you
might call again. It could
be in a minute, it
could be in a year.
You don't know, there may
be some underlying things like
HTTP, 1.1 keep alive and
TCP connections and things that
will, you know, deal with
the efficiencies and inefficiencies of
opening and closing a connection.
But for the most part,
you do a get you
a post and then it's
over. Right? Right. So HTTP
as a protocol is very
much based around this idea
of making a request and
then getting a response and
then making more requests when
the, when the need arises.
But web developers have found
ingenious ways over the years
to mimic persistence in quote,
real time unquote connections between
the browser and the server,
especially since sort of Ajax
became popular. There's been a
few techniques. People have used
to get this type of
logical persistent connection set up
between the browser and the
server. And then more recently
we've had the, the, the,
the appearance of the web
sockets standard, which a lot
of the browsers are now
starting to implement, which actually
gives you a true full
duplex TCP level connection between
the browser and the server.
But it's, it's pretty raw
because it's basically a raw
connection. So signal is something
that sits a layer above
all of those different techniques,
whether it's web sockets or
Ajax long polling or service
center vans. And it sits
above this and you code
against the signaler API, and
then we'll take care of
ensuring that the most appropriate,
the assistant connection transport is
set up and maintained between
the browser and the server.
Okay. So explain each of
the three things you just
said. There's long Pauling there's
service and events, and then
there's, WebSockets what are, how
do each of those work?
So let's start off with
the, the sort of the
lowest common denominator, which is
the Ajax long polling. So
web developers who've used Ajax.
They're probably already familiar with
the idea of, of palling.
So the idea is I
have some information that I
show on my webpage. It
may initially get rendered as
part of the original page
HTML payload. And then I
want that part of the
page to update somewhat frequently
without the user having to
hit the refresh button and
do a full page navigation.
And so what you might
do is use some Java
script to do something like
a set interval, so that
every three or maybe five
seconds, you make an Ajax
call to the server with
some type of ID that
says, you know, this is
the last time I got
data. And then the server
will reply with anything that
happens since that time. And
then when it comes back
to the Ajax request comes
back, you do some processing,
and then it goes to
sleep again for five seconds
or whatever you're pulling into
the layers. So the idea
of long polling is that
rather than us potentially needlessly
hitting the server every three,
five, 10 seconds, whatever our
interval is. And a lot
of the time in these
sorts of applications, there's actually
nothing to show on every
one of the poles, the
hit ratio may be very
low for the number of
poles you're actually making on
the server. So the idea
of long polling is that,
well, let me just make
an Ajax request to the
server that contains some type
of token that says, you
know, this is the last
time I received data from
the server. And then the
server doesn't actually reply to
that polling request until there
is data to satisfy that
request. And so that it
should be connection that Ajax
requests will just stay open
until the server is ready
to return it. And then
once something happens in the
server world to send that,
that would require that data
to go back over the
response to that Ajax request,
it'll complete the ADSL request,
send it back down to
the browser. The browser will
quickly process it and then
immediately send out another Ajax
request asking for the next
lot of data when it
is available. And so we
get this, we get this
illusion of a persistent connection.
And because when things happen
on the server, you instantly
get a response from the
server because you already had
a request open, a pending
long poll requests, open to
them. And then, and there
that's basically long polling. Does
the client think that it's
just a really slow connection?
I mean, are we taking
advantage of the fact that
you can request something and
it might take a second,
or it might take a
minute and the connection fall
down while it waits? Yeah.
I mean, there are issues
around timeout. And so most,
most of the times when
you deal with long polling,
you have to be able
to gracefully handle the situation
where the Ajax request is
terminated for whatever region, whatever
reason. And they have thankfully,
most Ajax libraries like jQuery,
give us a graceful way
of saying, well, when an
error occurs do this. And
so in the case of
long polling, all you're really
doing is setting up a
very tight long pole loop,
which is basically a, a
looped function that just calls
continuously calls is Ajax method.
I'm sorry, I posted this
Ajax end point. And if
an error occurs, it might
perhaps create a delay of
three or four seconds before
it tries again. But then
it'll just start again after
that, when the air conditioning
occurs now, because the internet
is not just browser to
server, it's browser to about
73 other devices before you
actually hit the target server.
One of the issues obviously,
is there any one of
those devices that you happen
to be routed through on
your way to the server,
could at any point in
time decide to just kill
your connection and certainly corporate
firewalls and cloud services front
end proxies, and things like
that have a habit of
identifying connections that have been
open for a long time
with no data being sent
over the end and just
killing them immediately. And usually
these timeouts, et cetera, about
60 to 120 seconds or
one minute to two minutes.
So things like, you know,
signal our, we, we sort
of gracefully handle this. We
have a service side. There's
a, there's a default timeout
for long polling as it
is. So we always, if
nothing happens after two minutes
on a long pole connection,
we just send back a
packet basically that says all
this time out. And then
our client's side lab, he
just knows to reconnect. And
obviously if before that time,
the connection is interrupted. For
whatever reason, the jQuery Ajax
error logic is going to
kick in. And we have
a handle for that, that
says, Oh, an error occurred
at the Ajax transport level.
Let's wait three seconds and
then we'll try again. So
it's a very, very simple
recovery mechanism agent way. And
that's why eight Exxon polling
is sort of the lowest
common denominator for doing this
type of thing. That's actually
really, really good. Okay. So
long polling makes a call
from the client to the
server and says, Hey, I
need some stuff. And then
there's a pause and the
server will respond whenever it
gets around to it, whenever
it's got data and that
pauses, okay, because you've got
other HTTP connections, you can
keep open. And we'll talk
about the scalability ramifications a
little bit later, but that
works everywhere and basically works
through any proxy. And it's
pretty reliable, Right? Because it's
basically just standard Ajax, but
the request just takes a
bit longer than that. Okay,
then, so then what is
service sent events? So service
center events is, was a
protocol. I think it was
suggested by opera back quite
a while ago. If you
use the guy, they introduced
it in some version of
opera, and it's basically the,
it's like a formalization of
long polling. And so it
includes client side object. So
in your browser, you'll be
able to say new event
source, that's a Dom sort
of JavaScript object that you
can create. If you say
new advanced source and you
give it an end point.
And then what happens is
the browser that takes care
of making a request to
this end point and then
keeping this connection open and
then recovering if anything goes
wrong. So, like I said,
it's really a formalization of
the Ajax long polling. The
one difference is that rather
than whenever data is ready
to be sent from the
server to the client, with
an Ajax request, they direct
clone Pauling. The, the Ajax
requests ends, you know, we
send the data back and
that is the end of
that particular Ajax request. And
then we send another one
with service center events. Once
you've established the HDP connection.
The protocol actually says that
the service streams data down
to the client using a
very simple sort of framing
protocol in the standard HTTP
response body. And so the
response actually never ends. So
rather than having an Ajax
long pole where we send
a request, at some point
we get some data that
request comes back and then
we send another request with
service and events. We make
a request with a special
header in it saying, this
is an event source request,
and the server will keep
that request open and then
just stream back little bits
of information over the response
stream as it becomes available.
And then in the client,
that event source object that
we created, it has an
API that sort of raises
events that you can handle
with standard JavaScript functions, so
that when data comes back
over the connection, you can
run your code and do
whatever it is that you
want to do. Okay. So
this is effectively the same
thing, conceptually, as long polling,
except after that, you make
the call, you hold the
connection open. Some data comes
back with long polling. The
data comes back and the
connection ends. And then you
start it over again with
service and events. You keep
that open in order to
send even more data later,
Correct. And currently the, all
the browsers except internet Explorer,
support service intervenes in some
fashion. And it's, it's fairly
easy to implement on the
service side because it doesn't
require any special, extra HTTP
plumbing. It really is just
a custom header that gets
sent up. And then it's
just buffering and not buffering
just immediately, you know, sending
stuff down over the response
and keeping the connection alive.
So that's that's service center
events and that, that works
quite well. We're still building
our server, send events transports
at the moment, but it's
certainly promising the advantage of
that over long polling is
around latency because with long
polling, you have this period
where once a long pole
has come back, you've received
data. This is period we're
in the browser. It's processing
that data before it then
makes another Ajax request with
service and events. Obviously we
don't have this issue because
there's no connection re-establishment going
on. You open a connection
and it stays open most
of the time. You just
keep getting dotted down in
somewhat real time. Now service
the events is a one
way technology only, it's only
served at a client. So
to stuff up to the
server, you just make standard
Ajax posts. Okay. And have
you built that into signal
already or is that something
you should? So we have
a branch in our source
at the moment that has
an experimental service intervention. And
is that, is that tricky
or is it just a
matter of, I mean, how
do you test something like
this A little bit, a
lot of manual testing, basically.
I mean, at the moment,
it's easy to test that
you can get serviced into
events. Working was very easy
just to set up a
handler and spit stuff out
over it. If it, if
it saved a certain header,
what's more tricky is, you
know, figuring out whether the
service and events can actually
take the sort of load
that people expect to be
able to push through something
like signaler. I mean, long
polling for all of its
failings. I mean that, you
know, it's a very low
level, lowest, common denominator denominator
type of thing. You have
this problem of latency and
this problem of this, you
know, there are actually periods
where you're actually not connected
to the server because you're
doing processing for all of
that. We've actually got our
long polling transport really, really
robust. And to the point
that, you know, we've got
demos where we have two
screen, two browsers up and
this sort of doing real
time, moving of Dom elements
from one browser being sent
to the other and that
sort of refreshing in real
time. And that works really,
really well. Even over something
like Ajax long polling at
the moment with server set
events, we're having a few
issues whereby when we start
pushing a lot of sort
of packets over the service
and events, connection, we see
some things being dropped and
we're still sort of trying
to figure out why that's
happening. So that's why it's
still an experimental transport at
the most. Okay. But conceptually
you'll have all three of
these things you'll have long
polling services and events and
websites. It's all working in
the same library. And the
person that writes to that
library me will not have
to think about any of
that stuff. They'll just have
a great experience on any
browser, Correct. That's the idea.
I mean, that sort of
brings us to the last
one, which is web sockets.
And a lot of people
are really excited about the
promise of website because it
gives us this true and
formalized way of doing a
persistent connection, a true sort
of socket level stream connection
between the client, the server
that's full duplex. The problem
is that it's so new.
So if you're a windows
user, I'm using internet Explorer,
you'll have to wait for
internet Explorer, 10 to get
web sockets support in the
client. On the service side,
you need to be running
windows eight server to be
using a web sockets from
within asp.net or WCF. Now,
if you're using other browsers
on the client, then, you
know, Chrome and Firefox and
opera, and those guys, they,
they support. WebSockets just fine
on the client at the
moment, but it's going to
be quite some time until
we can use web sockets
and hit the majority of,
of your audience on a
public facing website, because you
know, internet Explorer is still
has a very high usage
across the world. There's going
to be a long time
before we can just use
website cause everywhere the other
issue with website, cause it's
a very low level API,
it's a socket. And so
if you ever done any
socket programming, you know, there
are framing and buffering. And
if you look@theapiapisthataresortofinasp.net and the
next version, that's going support
this, you're working with a
raised segments of bites and
this type of thing. And
you have to make sure
that you never try and
send anything over a web
socket connection. That's actually closed.
There's all these types of
things that you have to
worry about if you're writing
against the rule WebSocket API.
So the idea of signal
R is that, well, we
just surface a really, really
simple connection API with a
very small amount of events.
Like, you know, someone connected,
someone disconnected, someone sends some
data and you want to,
and, or perhaps you want
to send some data to
someone or broadcast some data
and that's kind of it.
And then everything else is
just built on top of
that. Very, very simple, low
level connection API. And then
underneath that, we have all
these tracks and sports with
the complex logic of maintaining
this illusion of a persistent
connection taken care of This
episode of Hansel minutes is
brought to you by careers
2.0 and our friends at
stack overflow. If you're not
familiar with careers 2.0, it's
a career site dedicated to
advancing your career as a
developer, whether you find that
awesome new company to work
for, or create an online
program or profile, or even
post a job within your
own development team, a programmer
profile at careers 2.0 is
an evolving archive of actual
coding. You've done as well
as your own blog post
your favorite books, it's free.
It's easy to get started.
Just import your LinkedIn profile,
add your favorite stack overflow
answers, and even your open
source contributions to get hub
Bitbucket. And SourceForge even if
you're not currently looking for
a job, a profile on
careers 2.0 is a great
representation of your programming knowledge.
There is one catch profiles
on careers, 2.0 invite only.
They did this to keep
out the spam and create
a high quality environment. Fortunately,
for you as a Hansel
minutes listener, we've hooked you
up. We're going to invite
you to join tens of
thousands of other programmers who
already have a profile head
on over to careers dot
stack overflow.com/h M to accept
your invitation today, once again,
that's careers dot stack overflow.com/h
M the fact that you
can use Jason and you
can use HDP and that
we're high there, they're hiding
the complexities of the underlying
TCP connection that, that none
of us have had to
really worry or think about
TCP in a long time
is something that I think
people should appreciate and realize
that that that's pretty awesome
that you can throw a
string across the wire and
get a string back. And
for the most part, not
think about the little tiny
details that caused that string
to get there. It sounds
like with WebSockets, we'll have
to be thinking about that
again. Yeah. I mean, the
other problem with WebSockets is
because it's a, because it's
an extension to the HDP
protocol and a lot of
ways, a lot of the
hardware of the internet, I
mentioned, you know, the 73
odd devices that are between
your box and the server
you're hitting, they all have
to understand web sockets for
this to really, really work
because the way website has
worked is you make an
initial get requests, a standard
HDB, get requests with a
special header that says, I
want to upgrade this request
to a web sockets connection.
And then at that point,
its server understands that it
sort of switches the from
a normal request or WebSockets
request. And then the original
HDP part of it just
goes away. And then from
that point on, you basically
have a true TCP connection
from client to server. Now
that obviously may cause problems
with the infrastructure of the
internet. When we think about,
you know, really it's been
set up to work with
this idea of a stateless
request response model at the
moment. So it may be
some time before WebSockets become
something that we can reliably
use throughout the internet for
that reason, as well as
the, the re the browser
support. So let's, let's explore
that a little bit more
and make sure that people
really understood that. So HTTP
itself, that protocol that we're
all used to, and we're
all comfortable with in this
case, it's just used as
a rapper for a handshaking
protocol. You go, and you
say, Hey, do you support
WebSockets? Yeah, I do. Which
version, well, I support this
version. Well, that's cool with
me. I also support that
version. Now let's all step
into a parallel universe, start
another connection and HTTP then
stops being used, and it's
not involved in the conversation
anymore. That's right. That's right.
And so, if you think
about how large web servers
are deployed today, we have
this idea of server farms
and some type of front
end infrastructure that knows how
to load balance requests across
a farmer service. And then
anyone who's ever built websites
at any sort of scale
will be familiar with this.
And we have ideas of
things like server affinity or
stateless front ends. The problem
with sockets is they're sort
of Lowes you in this
idea of all things are
still now, but we actually
have this issue. If at
all, if you want to
build anything with scale, we
have to figure out how
we can do, how are
we gonna scale this persistent
connection across using the infrastructure
that we have for doing
this with, you know, request
response, sort of paradigms with
HDP. I have a server
farm. I have a front
end load balancer. Our request
comes in, okay, this is
a web socket request, which
servers are going to go
to. Okay, well, it goes
to seven. Number one, server
number one now has a
hard connection through to this
browser. Okay, well, I'm not
really load balancing very much
now because all that data
is going between that client
and that server, what happens
when that connection goes down?
There's my average in such
a way that if the
web socket connection for that
user suddenly appears at server
two, is it going to
continue to work? So these,
these sort of things that
we have to think about
now when we're using these
protocols, And that's why I
bring up this, this, this
analogy of the, of the
parallel universe, because this means
that your large well-organized server
farm that's completely prepared for
stateless traffic and load balancing
across HTTP might be wholly
and completely inappropriate and unprepared
for real time. So you
might end up with another
whole, another whole network switch
and other whole sub domain
and into their whole farm
to manage that kind of
traffic That's right. So it
is, it's an emerging standard,
you know, the, all the,
all the companies involved in
this working very diligently to,
to get the standard, to
sort of the place where
it can be readily implemented
everywhere, and people can start
trusting it. But I still
think it's going to be
quite some time before this
is something that can be
reliably used for the majority
of internet users. And so
until then, yeah, signal R
I think is, is the
libraries like, it was certainly
not the only one we'll,
you know, really I'm really
required to fill this gap
until such time that we
can say, Hey, web, soccer's
a great, we use it
everywhere. But even when we
get to that point, as
I said, you know, the
website, because API is pretty
low level. So we think
our API is a much
nicer place to be as
an application developer. So who
is your, who's your quote
unquote competition. I mean, there,
there are obviously a lot
of people in real time.
Whenever we think about real
time, we hear about products
like no JS. We hear
about socket IO and there's
different libraries that all claim
to do real time is
yours. They're just the same.
Yeah. In a lot of
ways. I mean, if you
look at, we were inspired
by a couple of things,
I mean, at the end
of it, to make it
very clear about what this
library is, this is, this
is a two part library.
It's a Java, it's a
jQuery plugin for the client
and the.net library for the
server. And it's designed to
run in asp.net. So this
is a very specifically a
persistent connection library for asp.net
developers. Now, if you look
at somebody like Sukkot it
IO, which is sort of
the, probably the most well
known of these libraries after
doing this type of thing.
And it has the same
concept of underlying transports, which
had dynamically switches out and,
and configure it based on,
you know, whatever the client
is and what the server
is  was built to
work with. No JS. It
really is a it's a
service side and the client
side library node is JavaScript.
So it's JavaScript on both
ends, which is kind of
nice. And there are other
people who, who have ported
the socket IO protocol, if
you like to other platforms
like PHP and those types
of things. We really, we
looked at socket IO in
the beginning, and we, you
know, we could have taken
the option of trying to
port socket IO to asp.net.
There's a couple of issues
with that one. We felt
the API of socket IO
didn't really wouldn't have been
as comfortable for asp.net developers.
And again, we were trying
to build this for all
asp.net developers, not just the
alpha geek, you know, top
5% of developers. We want
to make this library approachable
for anyone who's ever written
asp.net application. And so we've,
we've sort of structured the
API and the client and
the server to, to sort
of mimic.net where it needs
to, and then B you
know, nicely, Javascripty where it
has to be as well
on the client. And so,
as part of that, we,
you know, we invented our
own protocol. We say invented,
it just emerged as we
built the thing. Really. Now,
when you say protocol though,
you don't mean your own
like HDP protocol, you mean
your own style of programming?
Wow. No, no. I actually
mean our own shape of
the packets that we send
over the wire. So, yeah.
So remember, is this the
client side lobby and a
service side lobby that work
together and in order to
do this in such a
way, and we have to
be able to cater for
the fact that some of
the transports that we use
have floors, and we have
to be able to sort
of backfill over those floors.
You know, there are cracks
in how these things work
and we need to be
able to poly fill those
up so that everything looks
kind of smooth from the
layer that the developer uses.
And so to do that,
when you, when you have
a signal or connection in
the client, and you say,
send some data to the
server, we don't just send
the raw data. We actually
sort of wrap that data
in some Jason other information
and wrap it all into
Jason payload and then send
it to the server. And
then similarly on the service
side, when you say, I
want to broadcast this data
to all the currently connected
clients, we don't just broadcast
the raw data. We have
to sort of broadcast not
just your data, but a
bunch of framing information that
says, well, okay, this data
relates to this connection. This
is message ID number X.
It was sent on transport,
Y blah, blah, blah. So
that once we get once,
once the client side lobby
receives it, it knows how
to process and dispatch that
to the appropriate JavaScript methods
and, you know, events in
the, in the, in the
client side library that we
have. So that's what I'm
talking about when I was
talking about our protocol, like
the actual bites that go
over the, the connection, whether
it's web sockets or long
polling or service at events
is a signal, a packet
in one of the better
word. Okay. Now in the
past, I've, I've done. I
mean, we've all seen, like,
what we would have thought
was real time, like, like
the orig I think the
original, real time experience that
we've all had on the
internet was probably 10 years
ago when we hit expedia.com
for the first time. And
we said, find flights. And
then this animated gift came
up and it said loading,
and it looked like something
was really happening. And then
it would go, the screen
would flash and then we'd
get our results. And that
was using a meta refresh
tag and it was going
get results, got results, got
results, colors, notes. Yep. That
seems like a very obvious
thing to do with, with
signal or like that would
be a swap it in
and out kind of an
experience. Now, when that was
being done, as you pointed
out before, when you talked
about polling, it was basically
going, you hear me now,
do you hear me now?
And it was beating on
the server. It may have
been a lightweight thing, but
it was beating on the
server. I could have probably
opened a connection and tried
to keep it open, but
in the past and asp.net,
at least in kind of
standard, I HTP handler, I
would be holding that request
thread open. I don't think
that asp.net would have scaled
for more than 20 or
30 requests. And it would
have just been holding them
all open. How can I
do that now? How did
you fix that problem? So
there's a couple of things
that have happened in the
last sort of five years
on asp.net that have allowed
us to, to make this,
to do this now. So
the first thing that's probably
worth pointing out is how
AEs coordinate users threads, and
why people perhaps have found
doing this type of thing.
When I just get on
knit hard in the past.
So with acp.net, when the
application starts up, it uses
the.net thread pool. This is
the standard construct in dotnet
applications that sort of manages
the allocation of threads, you
know, threads, being the things
on the CPU that your
code runs on. If you
want to run more than
one thing at a time,
you need to have more
than one thread running. So
it, it, when, when you're
asked to run, the app
spins up, it gets so
many threads added to a
thread pool. That's now running
in your process or running
in your app domain. And
then what will happen is
when a request comes in
via I S and it's
handed off to asp.net, asp.net
will take a thread from
that thread pool and assign
the requests to that thread.
So it can run your
code on that thread. And
in standardized.net programming, that thread
will remain assigned to that
request for the lifetime of
that request. And this model
was really designed to cater
for the scenarios. We request
a very short live, you
know, under a hundred milliseconds,
a request comes in, you
do some processing, and then
you return it very, very
quickly. And the thread pool
is very, very good at
giving us spreads and taking
them back again at that
type of rate. It's certainly
has no problem doing that.
Now, prior to version of
a prior to.net for the
way that we, the default
numbers for the number of
threats that you are allocated
into your Apple for an
ACL net application was actually
very, very low down in
sort of the double digit.
So like, I think it
was something like 10 threads
per CPU or something like
this. So if you had
a four core machine, when
you're able to net application
started up, you would have
less than a hundred threads
perhaps in your ThreadPool by
default, so that you really
couldn't be dealing with any
more than a hundred concurrent
connections. Right. Right. And which
was, which was designed to,
to help throughput women, if
your goal was to serve
as many requests as possible,
you didn't want to spend
too much time thrashing. That
was an appropriate number of
threads per CPU, and was
optimized for horsepower and throughput,
but not for concurrency of,
of persistent connections. Exactly. And
that's what we see is
when we talk about these
concurrency top libraries, these idea
of real time, persistent connection
libraries, the much more important
measure is concurrency the number
of concurrent connections. You can
have open to the server
rather than the throughput of
the server, because generally with
the type of applications you're
building with these type of
abstractions, you're not having an
awful lot of throughput. You're
not sending dozens and dozens
of packets to the clients
per second. What you be
able to do is have
lots and lots of clients
connected. And then when something
happens, push those, push something
out very quickly to those
clients in somewhat close to
real time. And so we
got to.net for, and a
few things happened, first of
all, all those limits were
upped by default. So the
number of threads allocated into
the thread pool per CPU
were drastically increased. There are
other settings in asp.net that
actually govern like hard limits
on how many concurrent connections
can I have before I
just stopped serving requests that
got up to something like
5,000 in dotnet four, by
default, prior to that, it
was much, much, much, much
lower than that. Now these
will always tweakable, but as
you said, they were architected
as this because, you know,
I spit on, it was
really geared. It's serving certain
types of traffic. So what
we have now is this
situation where we can take
a lot more threads, but
we still have this problem.
I mean, you know, I
guess then maybe now I
have a thousand threads available
to me and I can
have handle a high limit
of 5,000 concurrent connections, but
that's still not that many.
Like I'd like to be
able to hold onto a
lot more connections than that.
Well, in order to do
that, we have to look
at, come back to that.
How is broad net deals
with threads requests? And so
I talked about before that,
the default way, what happens
is that when a request
comes in, I just put
on it, assigns it to
a thread, and that thread
lives with it requests for
the life of the request.
But we also have asynchronous
programming model inside of it,
net that lets you basically
keep a request open, but
dissolve all threads associated with
the request until such time
that there is work to
do on the request. So
if you think about a
persistent connection, what's mostly most
of the time what's going
to happen is that the,
the request does open, but
nothing's happening. You're waiting for
some event to take place
on the server. So that
at which point you'll send
out a down sort of
the stuff we've been talking
about all that time, while
nothing's happening on the request,
one, a threat to be
taken up. And so we
need to use the ACE,
but on an asynchronous programming
model to do this. Now,
this has been around for
a while. I mean, I
think I just don't know
there's been around since 1.1,
I think, but it was
very, very difficult because of
the fact that the way
you did@asyncin.net was something called
APM. The asynchronous programming model,
and people will be familiar
with a number of APIs
in asp.net, where we have
like a begin and end
method pair with the begin
method returns and IAA sync
result and takes in as
a parameter. And async Colback
delegate, which is basically the
function that needs to be
called when this async operation
has finished. And then the
calling code will end up
calling the end method, passing
in that IAA sync result
that was returned. That's a
fairly complex coding paradigm to
get around. And while it
may be fairly easy to
get your head around doing
one of those where it
became really difficult is when
you had multiple operations that
were async that you wanted
to chain together, or you
wanted to sort of set
up asynchronous loops where you
did some work and then
sort of went away. And
then at some point in
the future, woke up again
and did some more work.
And that type of coding
was very, very difficult to
do. So we've done there
for the day. Net team
introduces amazing library called the
task parallel library or TPL.
And this is a whole
new set of API inside.net
that make doing this sort
of asynchronous programming much, much
easier. It's it's you don't
have to deal with this
APM, any model anymore. We
have this task-based parallelism model
now. So rather than dealing
with IAA sync results and
method pairs, we now just
deal with things called tasks.
So a method can return
a task, which is a
promise. I mean, other programming
languages, we have these idea
of promises in J crew.
We have the idea of
a deferred object, which is
a promise. So this object
that your method return represents
something, a task that will
run in the future or
maybe running right now. And
then that task will complete
when that has completed. And
then there are API APIs
in the TPL that let
you chain one task to
another. So you can say,
okay, I now have this
task, which represents a database
call. And then when this
task is finished, I want
to go off and do
this other code with the
result of that first task.
And you can continue chatting
these tasks together. And then
the.net will just take care
of scheduling all this work
at the point when it
actually needs to happen based
on that sort of task
hierarchy that you've built up.
And all of that being
hidden from you by signal
are so signal R is
hiding the protocol. That's hiding
some complexities of scale. You
can, and people can use
this today. I mean, we
talked a lot about how
swept sockets is not ready,
but if the listener wants
to go and use signal
or today, even on a
production, what, what, what do
you, what do you recommend
to them? Well, we certainly
have people doing that already.
I mean, from the library
point of view with sort
of still in the fairly
early days, I think versions
like 0.3, something, we have
a sample reference application up
on app Harbor that we
can point to that we
sort of hang out in
as a chat application. So
there's sort of an IRC
clone. It's that chat app
thought app hb.com. And so
you can go up there
and sort of get a
feel for the type of
application you can build with
this. And then I'll get
hub where our sources, we
have a number of other
sample applications as well. Now
we know of people who
have built, Oh, who is
now using signal area and
things like auction sites. So
they can get real time
bid price updates on auction,
lot pages. We have other
people who are looking at
for using on things like
sports sites, so that if
you want to get sports
scores up to date in
real time, they're using looking
at using signal off of
that type of thing. And
then we also have a
scale-out story. So if you
have a large scale site
where your website runs on
more than one server, you
have to be able to
coordinate this at the signal
or messages that go between
the servers. So that if
I have a client connected
to server one who wants
to send a message in
real time to a client
on server two, then you
know, we have a scale-out
story for that as well.
We have a couple of
APIs that you can hook
into to sort of build
in support for whatever scale
that technology that you're using.
So you can certainly try
using it now where, you
know, it's continually being worked
on where we're still refining
a few parts of it,
but we are, the more
people use it, the better
it's going to get. So.
Alright, cool. So are you
going to, you have this
also signal our.net as a
domain that you've been sitting
on for a while, you're
going to hook that up
for me and make it
so it redirects to where
people can get the code.
A really good idea. So
yeah, we do have signal.
I've done that with the
idea of being able to
put a website up there
at some point, but for
now we should probably just
redirect it to the GitHub
repository. I'll go ahead and
do that. Otherwise you can
just go to github.com/which is
the organization, and there's a
bunch of repositories in there
for the various parts of
the library, or you can
just go to install, package
signal. Very cool. Thanks a
lot Damien, for talking to
us about signaler today. Not
a problem. Thanks for that.
This has been another episode
of Hansel minutes. We'll see
you again next week.